---
title: Baroquification
date: 2026-04-23 14:41:00
slug: baroquification
publish: true
description:
tags: [blue-cheese, work-stuff, Fetty-Wap]
categories:
  - music-production
---

# Baroquification
At work, I was tasked with making the *Battle Hymn of the Republic* into a Baroque version (interpreted; the word used was actually "harpsichordy"), to be used as background music for a game scene set roughly around that time.

<!-- more -->

I had, before starting, a MIDI keyboard at work, an evaluation copy of Reaper, a truly massive collection of VSTs- which are predominantly unused and could probably use some fresh air and sunlight out of archival storage- and a good friend, Thorn, who is great at music production. Now, a day later, I have all that and an anachronistic remix of a hymn. 

You can find the result here: [SOUNDCLOUD](https://soundcloud.com/joseph-hansen-427795815/battle-hymn-of-the-republic-baroque-remix?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing&si=bd3369a257cd49f889b6bdc3310918e3)

Before I even started, I knew the [syncopation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syncopation) had to go. If you've never heard syncopation on the harpsichord, imagine two of those monkeys with cymbals playing together, but the battery is dying in one of them and it's slowly losing time. The harpsichord already has an unfortunate slant towards organ-grinder-monkey banging on a tin can. Less monkeys, better music. (Also, Baroque music isn't syncopated, regardless of the instrument. Baroque music was, until the introduction of Eurodance club tracks, the most mathematically precise and unwavering genre[^1]).

The instruments used were: harpsichord, oboe, French horn, and cello. 

I used the oboe to add some rhythm, mainly in alternating note pairs. "Boot and cats and boots and cats", if you will, but more harmonic[^2]. Cello added bass, and the French horn added warmth and depth (two things the harpsichord badly needs[^3].)

I would like to do some personal project music soon. I suppose the proper way to christen a new SoundCloud account is to upload some homebrewed rap, but I'm not a rapper[^4] and I was recently told by a youth that I look like if Slenderman worked in tech support, so that's not going to happen. I may, however, upload a recording of *Fetty Wap*'s "Trap Queen" played on the Fisher-Price crocodile xylophone. 

[^1]: This isn't an endorsement of either genre, I've been known to listen to both occasionally but I don't generally seek either out. It is more a reflection on the parallels between mid 2010s EDM and your average Bach piece, which could take up an entire book. I think Bach would have very much enjoyed EDM.
[^2]: An entire book. Seriously. 
[^3]: I promise this isn't a harpsichord hit piece, harpsichords go hard. They are, however, quite a lot on their own. I think they're the blue cheese of the orchestra. 
[^4]: So stop rapping at me